# Basics

Every experiment has its own directory under *exps*. Each experiment will have its source code under a subdir called *exp*. For example, the experiment for replicating the MLP from the eLife paper is called *e2_mlp*. Its source code will be located in *exps/e2_mlp/exp*. Results generated by running the experiment will be located at subdir called *results.ign*. For example, results for the *e2_mlp* experiment will be located under *exps/e2_mlp/results.ign*. Some experiments will have a third subdir under their directory called *script*. This usually contains post-scripts, i.e scripts for post-processing the results.

# Singularity

Dependencies of the experiments for both Python and R are managed by a singularity container. The definition of the container is *deeplearn.def*. The singularity container can be built using the script *build_singularity.sh*. This script will produce a singularity container in the root dir with the name *deeplearn.sif*. Running any experiment depends on this image.

# Running Experiments

For running an experiment without using SLURM (i.e on a workstation, not on a cluster), the *singularity_python_run.sh* script is used. The first command-line argument for the script is the entry point of the experiment. This is usually a file called *main.py* in the *exp* subdir. For example, to run the *e2_mlp* experiment
```bash
./singularity_python_run.sh exps/e2_mlp/exp/main.py
```
Any arguments specified after the first argument are passed to the experiment. For example, each experiment requires a mandatory argument called *tag*, which specifies the directory name to save the results under *results.ign*. For example, running:
```bash
./singularity_python_run.sh exps/e2_mlp/exp/main.py ++tag=my_exp
```
will run the *e2_mlp* experiment using the default hyperparameters and store the results at *exps/e2_mlp/results.ign/my_exp*. 

For submitting jobs on the cluster using SLURM, the *singularity_python_run.sh* has to be replaced by *sub_job.sh*. The usage of *sub_job.sh* is almost identical to using *singularity_python_run.sh*.

# Config and Hyperparameters

The configurations for each experiment is in *exps/<exp_name>/exp/config.yaml*. This file contains the default values for all the experimental hyperparameter. These configurations are managed by [hydra](https://hydra.cc/). The hydra documentation provides information on the syntax to change/override any configuration when running an experiment. For example, to change the dropout value in the *e2_mlp* experiment to 0.5
```bash
./singularity_python_run.sh exps/e2_mlp/exp/main.py ++tag=my_exp model.dropout=0.5
```

# Git Ignored Files/Dirs

Any directory that ends with *.ign* is ignored by *git*. This is mainly used to exclude data and result files and directories from the source control. For example, the *results.ign* directory used to store experimental results is ignored by *git*. Also, any file name containing *.ign.* will be excluded from version control. This is mainly used for temporary test scripts that do not need to be tracked by the source control. For example, a bash script with the name *test.ign.sh* will not be tracked by *git*.

# Running R Scripts

Similar to python, R scripts can be run using *singularity_r_run.sh*. This follows a similar syntax to *singularity_python_run.sh*. The first argument is the R script to be run. Further arguments are passed to the R script itself.
```bash
singularity_r_run.sh ./path/to/script.R <arguments to R script>
```